Hi, I'm Chris. I'm an editor and a Blackmagic certified master trainer and today we're going
to continue our exploration of editing in DaVinci Resolve. Now following on from the
previous video, what we can do is just simply open up the project and carry on working from
where we last left off. In the project manager in Resolve, just simply double click the age
of airplane's trailer. This will open up the project at the last point that you last left it.
Now the first thing that we want to do before we make any major changes to this project is to
duplicate the existing timeline. That way we've always got a backup of the work that we've done
previously. So if we go too far in changing this timeline, we can always go back to a previous
version. Go to the timelines bin in order to locate your timeline that you were just working on,
then right click the timeline and choose duplicate timeline. Now rename this timeline by
clicking on the name and calling it version 2 and double click the timeline to open it up into
the timeline window. The first thing that we're going to do to this duplicate timeline is to add
some audio tracks so that we can add some voiceover and some sound effects. Right click in any of
the track headers and choose add tracks. This allows you to add any number of video and audio
tracks that you need for your timeline. In this case, we don't need to add any video tracks,
so set the number of video tracks to zero and set the number of audio tracks to three. Insert
position is below audio one. This is the correct location for where we want to add our new tracks
and the audio track type is going to be stereo. You don't always want stereo as your default
track type. Instead, you might actually be working with mono audio. In that case though,
you can always change the track type later, so we'll just stick with stereo for the moment.
Choose add tracks to add the three extra audio tracks to your timeline. The other thing that would
be helpful to do is actually rename these tracks so that I know what type of audio is on each track.
I'll just make the timeline track headers a little bit bigger and I'm going to click on the name
for audio track one and I'm going to call this sync. Audio track two, we're going to call this
VO. Audio track three, we'll call SFX as we will in audio track four and finally audio track five
is the music track. The other thing that you can do is actually color code the audio tracks. This
makes it easy. It's a visual reference so that it's easy in order to be able to see the type of
audio that you're working with. There's no need to set specific colors. Just go with the colors
that you personally think work for you. So in this case, I'm going to right click the sync track
and I'm actually going to choose change track color to lime. All of the clips in that track turn
to lime. For the VO, I'm going to choose track color teal. For the sound effects, I'm going to
choose track color brown as I am for the second soundtrack and for the music, I'm going to choose
olive. Providing you haven't changed the clip color of the clip within its bin or in the timeline,
it'll inherit the color of the timeline tracks. This means it's easy to spot when you're looking
at the timeline. So first thing we need to do is add some voiceover and the first voiceover piece
is going to go between the first and second piece of interview, but obviously on the voiceover track.
So I'm just going to place the playhead just part way into the second video clip. I should just
resize the timeline slightly so that I can see my clips clearly. And then from the VO bin,
I'm going to double click the first of our voiceover tracks, HF VO1. I'll go back to the
beginning of this clip and have a listen to it. In the age of airplanes, we've become explorers once
again. I'm going to use the top waveform here just to navigate back to the beginning of that
piece of voice and set the in point where I can clearly see the voiceover starts. And again,
I'm going to do the same by adding an out point at the end of that. Now, because I want this to
go on to audio track two, I need to change the targeting from the source to the track in the
timeline. Here, I simply click on the audio two box in order to switch the targeting from audio
one to audio two. Any clips that I now edit into this timeline will automatically appear on that
audio track. For this, all I now need to do is just do a simple overwrite edit. As before,
you can just simply pick the clip up, drag it across to the timeline viewer. Or alternatively,
you can use the overwrite button at the top of the timeline or use your keyboard shortcut, F10.
And as you can see, it's already now color coded teal because that was the color coding that we
set for that track. The next piece of voiceover actually needs to come after the last bit of sync
on a one. So I'm going to position my playhead just after that, select voice over to from the
voice over bin. And I'm just going to have a listen to this. For the moment, leave behind
everything you know about airplanes. Anything you've heard about their history. Every conclusion
you've drawn from your own experience and prepare to see them again for the first time.
Now that clip was actually quite long. And because we're making a trailer, rather than the whole
film, we obviously only need to use a small part of that voiceover. So in this case, we go back to
the first piece of waveform, and we don't need the first line. For the moment, we need to start here
just after he says for the moment. So I'm going to add an in point, leave behind everything you
know about airplanes, and an out point after that line of dialogue. And now I can make an
overwrite edit into that part of the timeline. Now we need to come to the end of the piece of
voiceover and select in and out points around the last two pieces of waveform.
And prepare to see them again for the first time. Out point there and again make an overwrite edit.
Now as you can see, sitting with those clips in the timeline as they currently are,
they're a little bit long. So we might just need to refine where those clips are actually sitting
in terms of the position on the timeline. So here I'm just going to navigate my playhead
over those clips and use the detail zoom. Now the detail zoom in this case is actually taking
me way too close. I can't really see how these clips are actually sitting on the timeline with
regards to the rest of the timeline. So I just need to zoom out a little. So I'm going to hold
down command and use the minus button just once or twice just to be able to come out a little bit.
Now the first thing I'm going to do is just move the clips back and I'm actually going to move this
interview clip back here just so it's a little bit tighter with the first
section of clips. That just gives me a little bit more room to play with.
Now I can just select those clips, just move them back a touch as well. Now you notice
snapping is happening there. You can see how it's snapping to the end of the previous video clip.
I'm just going to disable that by pressing N on the keyboard. You can see it's just disabled that
briefly just to bring that back and again I still want to actually contract time a little bit more.
So all I'm going to do here is move the playhead just before Harrison's last piece of voice over
there and then use command or control B to split that clip. Now I can just simply pick that clip
up and again with the snapping off just tighten it up a little bit just so that I've lost a little
bit of the time between those two pieces of voice over. So that's got the voice over into the timeline
at least. There's a few more things that we need to do to this but for the moment we're going to
move on and we're going to put some sound effects in and continue the editing portion.
Let's go back to full extent zoom and move the playhead over the second clip in the timeline.
So let's go to the sound effects and you'll see that there is a sound effect here called jet taxi.
Double click back to open into the source. Now the idea here is that we actually want to
edit this sound effect to just the portion of the timeline that we're working in. So for this
we're going to add in and out points directly to the timeline. A quick way of being able to
do this is make sure your timeline is the active window and press X on the keyboard.
X will mark the clip. Marking a clip will actually put in an out point around the clip
at the very start and very end frame of the clip. So it's a quick way of being able to make sure
that you're editing one clip to the duration of an existing clip. We also need to make sure that
this audio is ending up on the right track. So in this case we're going to make sure that the
targeting changes from audio to the voice over track to audio three. And now we're going to
perform an overwrite edit. And you may be wondering why we didn't set an in point in the source viewer.
The reason why we didn't is because if you don't set an in or an out point it will always take
the full duration of the clip. So in this case the in point is actually the implied in point
at the very beginning of the clip. Moving forward let's move the playhead over the shot of the
south pole clip. Again let's press X to mark that clip. Choose the SFX prop audio.
Double click that to open it up into the source. And this time we will actually set an in point.
We don't need an out point because we've already got an out point directly on the timeline. However,
by setting an in point it means that we're not going to use the very first part of the clip. And
you always want to leave a little bit of footage before and after the in and the out points just
to give you a little bit of wiggle room on the timeline. So I'm just going to mark a portion
of the wave where it looks you know a reasonable amount and maybe here towards the middle of the
wave. So I'm going to set an in point there and again make an overwrite edit directly onto the
timeline. Because the playhead has moved to the end of the clip I've just edited into the timeline.
You'll see it's actually on the first frame of the next shot, the Alaska shot. So alls I now
need to do is press X to mark that clip. And now I can actually go to the sound effects for distant
prop. Double click that to open it up into the source and again use the waveform so that you're
not using the beginning part of this waveform here. It's somewhere around about the middle.
Mark an in point and now we need to choose the track that we actually want this clip to appear on.
And in this case we actually need to have it edited onto A4.
And again overwrite edit. Mark the next clip, switch the audio targeting back to A3.
And in this case we're going to use sound effect for light wind. Double click that,
choose a portion of whichever part of the sound effect that you want and edit that into A3.
Understanding how you're using these editing functions is very useful to ensure that you get
the audio to sit at the right point on the timeline so that it's accompanying the right
piece of video. Move your play head back to the third clip. This is the shot of the jet taking
off. Press X to mark that clip. Change the track targeting to A4. And find the clip called SFX
jet takeoff. Double click that to open it into the source. Now at the moment what we've been doing
is in all of the source clips we've been adding in points to the start of the clip where we want
the sound effect to start. But what we can also do is what we call a back timed edit which is
very useful when you know where you want a clip to end. Set an out point towards the tail end of
this fade out of this jet sound. And now when I perform the standard overwrite edit it will
actually back time the sound effect into the timeline. So now it'll sound as though the plane
is actually leaving shot. We can actually do something similar with the final shot. Move the
play head to the last shot in this sequence. Press X in order to mark the clip. And because we
pretty much leave this shot as the plane is directly overhead it actually makes sense to take a slightly
earlier part of the out point for the clip. So I'm going to set an out point just as the
audio starts to fade away. And again making sure I'm editing onto audio 4 and make an overwrite edit.
Now from the previous video you'll also remember that we not only had overwrite edits but we had
other sorts of edits as well. One of those edits that we explored was the replace edit.
And you can actually use the replace edit to good effect here in the timeline
in order to be able to synchronize sound and picture together. Move your play head to the
fourth clip in the timeline which is the shot of the water plane coming overhead in the Maldives.
Find the point on your timeline where the plane is just probably about halfway in shot.
In the sound effects bin find the sound effect called SFX overhead. Double click to open that
in the source viewer. Now you can see from this waveform here because we have this very sort of
high spike in the waveform where the plane is at its closest. What we're going to do is we're
going to use that as a reference point for this point in the timeline where the plane is directly
overhead. So make sure in the source viewer you actually position the play head as close to the
center of that waveform as possible. Let's target audio 3 for this. Then simply make a replace edit
in whichever way you want. In this case I'm going to click the replace button.
And you can see that the clip is actually timed so that the height of the waveform actually is
now synchronized with the actual plane passing overhead. In order to appreciate this I'm just
going to simply mute the music track by pressing the M mute button and then use the forward slash
key in order to be able to preview that part of the timeline. So now that we've got the audio in
the timeline it's time to start to think about the audio mix for this trailer. So the first thing
that we want to do is actually to sort out the dialogue tracks. So in this case I'm not interested
in the sound effects or the music tracks just for the moment so I'm just going to mute all of the
tracks that I'm not interested in. And now I can turn my attention directly to the dialogue and
arguably the dialogue is usually the most important piece of audio within your timeline because unless
we can actually hear and understand what's being said there's really no point in is actually listening.
In order to monitor the audio in the timeline the best thing to bring up is the audio mixer.
From the top right hand corner of the interface just click the mixer button
to bring up the mixer in the timeline. You can then open the mixer out
in order to be able to reveal all of the controls for each of the tracks. If you're working on a
laptop or a display that's actually quite small you may want to hide the media pool just to give
you a little bit more room in order to be able to work. So in the top left hand corner click the
media pool button to hide the media pool. Now to begin with we just need to look at the levels
and also the audio channels being used in the timeline. From the beginning of the timeline
I'm just going to play the first part of this interview. In this film making a documentary
about how the airplanes change the world. As a quick rule of thumb for dialogue you generally
want your audio levels to be around about that yellow area on the meters so that's something to
aim for. Also you noticed as I play this back that there's actually two audio channels in this
clip. It was really important to go out and shoot the real world. This indicates that this clip
is stereo and it's actually sitting within a stereo track. For most dialogue clips and that's
pretty much anything that's shot on a camera you will probably want to work with mono audio.
In actual fact let's play the Harrison Ford clip and let's see the difference here.
In the age of airplanes we've become explorers once again. Well first of all you'll see that the
Harrison Ford clip is nicely sat within that yellow area of the meters. However it's what we call one
legged. It's coming out of only one channel of our output. Well we don't want that for Harrison
Ford and the reason for that is that we want to actually have this as mono audio which is a single
audio channel actually sitting within a mono track in the timeline. So that's the other
general rule. If you've got dialogue in the timeline ideally it should be mono and ideally
it should be sat on a mono track and thankfully Resolve enables me to change the track type
very easily and without too much fuss. So there's no problem if you get things slightly wrong or
confused because you can always put it right a little bit later on in the process. All I'm going
to do is right click on the VO audio track header and choose change track type to mono
and you'll see the little 2.0 indicator has now changed to a 1.0 indicator which indicates now
that this is a mono track. Playing Harrison Ford's voice over back here in the age of airplanes
now shows me I've got a mono track with mono audio in it and it's now playing out of both
audio channels from this timeline. We can also do the same sort of thing with the interview
audio as well. So I can now right click the sync audio track header choose change track type to mono
and now when I play that in this film making a documentary about how the airplanes changed the
world it was really important to go out and shoot the real world. I've now got mono audio
now Resolve hasn't done anything too clever here all's it's just done is simply take the first
audio channel from the clip in the timeline so that clip is still stereo if I was to move it
into a stereo track I would still get the stereo audio but because it's playing in a mono track
only the first audio channel is being used and in this case that's what I want to use.
If you do need to change the audio channel configuration of a clip though you can always
right click it in the timeline and choose clip attributes and in the audio tab you can actually
change the format so in this case we can actually switch from stereo to mono and then choose the
embedded audio channel that we want for that mono clip. Now that I've got my audio channel sorted
out I can actually now start thinking about the levels that need to be set and it depends where
you need to deliver your audio to as to what levels that you should be aiming for however as a good
rule of thumb around about the sort of the minus 12 dbfs on the main output meter is probably something
good to aim for you can also listen to the audio as well just make sure you're happy with the mix
the main thing is can you hear the different elements and does one element making sure that
one element does not swamp another I'm going to go back to the beginning of the timeline
and I'm just going to play Brian's interview so I'm just going to play the audio on the sync track
in this film making a documentary about how the airplanes change the world
it was really important to go out and shoot the real world now the problem with that is there are
parts of that audio clip that are actually quite loud and there are parts that are a little bit
quiet and really what I want to do is I kind of want to balance the audio so that it is roughly
the same level throughout the one thing that I want to avoid is my audience having to constantly
raise or lower their volume control for their speakers or their headphones as they're watching
this video I need to present everything at a consistent level let's just zoom in on this clip
just to have a look so I'm going to click the detail zoom button and I'm also going to make
the audio track height a little bit bigger and now having seen the waveform you can actually see
where there are certain loud spikes in the waveform and where everything starts to get a little bit
quiet what we can do is we can actually start to balance out this so the t starts off at one level
and continues at roughly the same level in order to be able to do this we need to add key frames
to the volume curve an easy and quick way to be able to add key frames is actually to hold down
the option or alt key when you click on the volume curve in the timeline so here I'm just going to
hold down the option key when I click on this part of the timeline just after this first
spike in the waveform here I'm going to add a second key frame by holding down option again
and clicking once again on the volume curve this now means that I can raise this part of the curve
so that it's roughly in line with this first peak of the audio here if I go back to the beginning
and preview this in this film making a documentary about how the airplanes changed the world
it was really important to go out and shoot the real world as you can see the audio is now more
consistent along the duration of the clip however it's probably a little bit too hot now the main
thing I'm interested in is making sure that all of the clips at this point on the same audio track
are balanced to be roughly around the same level they don't have to be the right level they just
have to be consistent and one way we can do that is we can normalize the audio what this will do
is it will actually calculate a change in the audio curve based on the peak level of the clips
see how we can do that I'm just going to select these audio clips right click and choose normalize
audio levels there are a number of different normalization modes to choose from but sample
peak program is probably the simplest one to use the minus nine dbfs level is a good starting
point for this again this will actually normalize the peak levels so by having it set to minus nine
is the upper part of that uh that yellow area on the meters and we also want to make sure that we
set this to be independent so that it will treat each clip on its own now we can choose to normalize
in order to be able to normalize the clips to roughly the same level
if I just play this clip here if we couldn't get the shot or the weather wasn't
right we would either go back to that location or it didn't make the movie it was really important
every shot was original and that everything was real so each of those clips is now roughly the
same level in order to bring the first clip into line as well what we can do is we can just preview
that and if we need to we can actually just nudge the audio up or down so selecting that clip
and playing through in this film making a documentary about how the airplanes changed the
world option command minus just to be able to nudge that down one db at a time in the age of
in this film making a documentary about how the airplanes changed the world
it was really important to go out and shoot the real world and that's brought it more in line with
the rest of the audio on that track now the next thing I want to do is to do pretty much the same
thing but with the audio from the voiceover however because this was recorded in a studio it's much
more consistent than something that was recorded on location in an interview situation so what I'm
just going to do here is actually just adjust the clips as appropriate so I'm going to select the
first clip play it through in the age of airplanes we've become explorers once again so what I've
just done is just adjusted that clip not by very much just by a couple of db just to increase the
level slightly to keep it consistent with the rest of the audio in the speech for the dialogue
leave behind everything you know about airplanes and prepare to see them again for the first time
and I'll probably just lower that that end clip there a db and then maybe just bring this first
clip up single db leave behind everything you know about airplanes and prepare to see them again
for the first time so that now means that the dialogue has been balanced I can now turn my
attention to some of these sound effects start to integrate them into the trailer first of all
I'm just going to make the timeline track heights a little bit shorter just so that I can concentrate
on each of these clips now the first thing I'm going to do is I'm going to unmute audio tracks
three and four but I am going to mute the dialogue tracks so that's audio track one and audio track
two again the idea here is to be consistent don't worry if the sounds are too high or too low just
to make sure they're roughly the same level so I'm going to play these through
okay so first thing I'm going to do is just make sure I've got the levels
roughly the same so I'm actually going to increase this one here and this one here
this one here now it might seem slightly counter intuitive why would I be increasing
audio levels but again this is just to make sure that they're balanced across the different clips
and they're consistent because once I've done that I can now bring the levels down using the track
faders let's just go back to the beginning here just play this through
so
so I'll just need to just pull this level down a little bit just to keep it in line
so that's how easy it is to start mixing your audio you could have individual levels for each
of the clips nothing wrong with that but it just means that using the mixer and using the track
level sliders just makes mixing just that awful lot easier now the only other thing I'm going to do
with these sound effect clips is just create little fades between each clip this will just
help the transition from one audio clip to another let's go to detail zoom on the first clip
and what we can do first of all is we can actually just apply a little audio fade
at the beginning and end of each of these clips
it's a little fade like that and then I can trim the end of the clip out so that it overlaps
the underlying clip on the lower audio track so this will now cross fade those two clips together
I can also slip this clip just like I can do with a video in order to give me a little bit
more handle at the beginning here so that I can just lengthen that clip from the very beginning
just a tiny little overlap of the audio is always useful you want to be careful it's not too long
but it will just indicate there's a change of picture coming just anticipate that in the audience's
mind I'm going to continue scrolling through here and I'm going to continue adding little
audio fades on each of these clips an audio fade out there
once again I'm going to do the same technique as before with this South Pole audio
tiny little fade in at the beginning
just to anticipate the picture change there
and fade out there and I'll just bring the other one through the
subsequent shot bring that in finally just a couple more to do here
that little audio fades
and finally I'm just going to lengthen that last clip just so that it tails out
right underneath those titles there
so now when I just play that last bit
and the sound of the airplane dies away slightly
now you may be wondering why I haven't added audio transitions between those clips
now that's another way of being able to work however I often find that these audio fades
are much more accurate than the audio transitions that you might be using
the last element of this audio mix that I need to bring in is of course the music
and very similar to working with the sound effects I can actually use the track slider
in order to be able to adjust the music level so first of all I'm going to unmute all the tracks
in the timeline go back to the beginning of my edit and I'm just going to play through
and have a listen to where the music level should be
every shot was original and that everything was real
now throughout that I was actually watching the audio meters but I was also listening
to the mix as it was coming through and you can see that what I can now do
is I can easily ride the levels so that if the sound effects are too loud
I can actually bring the sound effects on those tracks down with just one fader
so that's the advantage of using the audio mixer in this case
one thing I am going to do though is I'm actually going to increase the level
of the music after Harrison Ford has finished his final line
so in this case I'm just going to add a couple of audio keyframes
on the volume curve and just adjust that
up by a couple of dB from where it was before
so I can always go back into the timeline and start making further level adjustments
if I need to at an individual clip level
for the first time
so that's the audio mix done for this timeline however we're not quite there yet
we need a few little visual flourishes before we can say that this
is a wrap and in this case we're going to add a few transitions
just to indicate a change of location and we're also going to add some fusion titles
from the built-in templates that resolve ships with
so to start with let's just simply adjust the height of each of these tracks
just to give me a little bit more space in terms of the visuals
and the first thing we want to do is actually add some video transitions
now I was always taught when I was learning video editing
that you should use transitions sparingly and usually to indicate a change of time or location
so here I've got an edit point between two shots
I can select the edit point here
and then come to the menu and choose timeline add transition
and this will add a default one second cross dissolve transition
let's just preview that with the forward slash key again
and that simple fade usually indicates to the audience that some changes there
usually a change of time or a change of location
let's just zoom in on that transition a little bit as well
because you can also change any of these transitions
of course you can change the duration of the transition by clicking on it and dragging it
at the side there but if you right click on the transition
you can also change the transition duration by typing in values and you can see that we've
got presets there as well very similar to how we changed the duration of clips
alternatively you can also change the style of the transition through the inspector
so let's come up to the top right hand corner of the interface click on the inspector button
and we also see that we're in the transition inspector
here we've got the transition type which is cross dissolve
but we can also choose from lots of different sorts of types
of transition let's choose edge wipe
because I've got the playhead over the center of the transition you can now see that if I change
the angle of the wipe you can see how it actually changes the direction of the wipe
let's set that to around about minus 80
let's increase the border and you can change the border color using the color swatch in the
inspector however there is also the option to feather the border
so if we click on that we've now got a nice soft edge border
if I hit the forward slash key to preview the timeline
I can now channel my inner George Lucas
of course resolve comes with a whole bunch of transition presets for you to use
if you go to the effects library and choose video transitions
you can see that you've got all manner of different transitions to choose from
and if you actually take your mouse and just run them across the transition
you can actually live preview each of those transitions
so you get a sense as to how each of those transitions works
the final element that we're going to add to this edit is actually some titles
we need to know for example who the interviewee is
but we're also going to add some titles for each of the geographic locations that the film visits
when it was filming
just like with transitions you can actually live preview each of these by running your mouse across
them and with the fusion titles you'll actually get to see the different animations that we have
so you can choose whether or not a title is appropriate for your edit
even before you apply it to your timeline
in this case I want to scroll through the list and I'm looking for a title
called simple underline lower third
I'm going to take that title and I'm going to move up to my timeline viewer overlays
and then I'm going to choose the place on top edit
and surprisingly this time because I'm dealing with video
resolve actually places the title on top of the video where my playhead is
I'll hide the effects library just to give myself a little bit more room
and go into my detail zoom
zoom out touch there and I just want to trim the title to the end of the clip
to adjust the title all you'll simply do is just go directly to the inspector
so here in the text box I'm going to highlight the sample text
and I'm going to give my interviewee his name which in this case is Brian J. Tawiliga
and you can also customize the font as well if you click in the font menu here you can actually
scroll through the list of fonts that you have installed on your system and get a live preview
of what each font may look like in this case I'm actually just going to leave everything
set to open sans however I can customize the text further using the lower controls including the size
and also the tracking which is the spacing between the letters
just by bringing the letters a little closer together makes them easier to read I feel
below that we've also got controls for the line as well that's that blue line underneath the text
of course I can increase or decrease the line thickness depending on the style that I'm looking
for and I can also change the line color in this case I'm actually going to increase the red
color channel and the green color channel and actually just lower the blue color channel
just to change the color of the line to yellow in actual fact you can also customize the gradient
across the line let's change the type from solid color to horizontal and now I get a second color
box which I'm actually going to customize by just making it a little bit more of an orange color
now that I've got my first title in I can actually use this as a basis for the rest of the titles
throughout the trailer and all's I'm just going to do is just copy and paste the title into
different locations let's go to full extent zoom and select the title and then I can actually
choose to copy the title just as I would do anything else so command or control c is a keyboard
shortcut that you'll probably be familiar with now I'm going to find the Maldives shot here
and I'm going to choose to paste so edit paste command or control v and resolve will actually
paste directly to the track from which I've copied from let me just trim that back to the end of that
shot and then change the title here to Maldives I'm going to copy that title
paste over the next clip which is the south pole shot
this clip is Alaska
and then of course Kenya
really important every shot was original and then everything was real
leave behind everything you know about airplanes and prepare to see them again
just going to trim that back a little bit because it was just overlapping the transition a little
bit and prepare to see them again don't worry if you can't play these titles back in real time
immediately depending on the power of your system resolve may need to cache the files
prior to being able to play them back at full quality in which case just let resolve
have a few seconds and resolve will automatically cache the files for you you'll notice when a
file is cached because the red line above the title will turn blue to indicate a cache file
you should now be able to play your title back in real time now that I've got this edit ready to go
what I want to do is to be able to play it back for the client at full screen
if I just return the playhead back to the beginning of the timeline
from the workspace menu we can choose viewer mode cinema viewer
this will give me a full screen playback of my entire edit in this film making a documentary
about how the airplanes changed the world it was really important to go out and shoot in the world
in the age of airplanes we've become explorers once again
if it was possible to shoot it we wanted to go shoot
if we couldn't get the shot or the weather wasn't right we would either go back to that location
or it didn't make the movie it's really important every shot was original and everything was real
leave behind everything you know about airplanes and prepare to see them again for the first time
just simply press escape in order to be able to return back to the interface
I hope you found this tutorial useful if you've got any further questions about editing and resolve
please feel free to join us on the black magic design forums
and you can also familiarize yourself with the training materials that we have available
on the DaVinci Resolve product pages and all of those materials are available for free
thank you very much and happy editing
